---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  QXBwbGUgVFYgb24gbXkgVFY=
typo_id: 305
---
I picked up my Apple TV today from Fedex since I wasn't expecting the delivery a day early.&nbsp; It is quite a good looking device, both physically and what it puts on the screen.&nbsp; The little remote might bother me a little as I've come to expect more from remotes since I got my Logitech Harmony remote.&nbsp; I wonder if Apple has included discrete codes in the device, so I can setup a macro on my remote that will turn on my receiver and start shuffling through my music.&nbsp; I don't want to have to turn on my TV every time I want to listen to music.<br /><br />Anyway, time to play with it will have to wait since the Sweet 16 is on.<br /><br /><b>Update:</b> Well, 2 things I was hoping to do with the Apple TV don't seem possible.&nbsp; I wanted to be able to control my music playing on the Apple TV from my laptop from anywhere in the house.&nbsp; The 2 ways I was thinking that would work would be by having it show up as remote speakers in iTunes for playing my local iTunes stuff, a la AirTunes, or by actually selecting the media that are on the Apple TV from the iTunes devices interface.&nbsp; Neither of these work.&nbsp; Is this a deal-breaker for me?&nbsp; I'm not sure yet, but playing music through my stereo without the TV on was one of the things I was expecting from the Apple TV.<br />
<br /><br /><b>Update 2:</b> So far I've mainly been using it for listening to music and it sounds fine, I just shut the TV off once the music starts.  I don't think it sounds better than my Archos Recorder v1 from 2002 running "Rockbox":http://www.rockbox.org/twiki/bin/view/Main/DeviceChart through S/PDIF, but the UI is nicer looking.  The only video I've watched so far was from "The Merlin Show":http://www.themerlinshow.com/ in hi-res, and it looked ok, better than SD but not as good as HD.  I was able to hook up my Harmony remote to work reasonably well, but still discrete codes for playlists or something would make things better.  These "instructions":http://www.livingwithmac.com/apple-tv-and-harmony-remote helped get things setup with the remote.  The slide shows are nice and look great, I think they are my wife's favorite feature so far.<br />
