---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  RnVsbCB0aW1lIGhhcmQgY29yZSBGbGV4IERldmVsb3BlciBwb3NpdGlvbiBp
  biBEZW52ZXIu
typo_id: 3998
---
One of my customers, Fiserv Insurance Solutions, looks for an experienced Flex Developer for one of it's new project. In short they are looking for a good Flex developer. Here is an extract of the job post and you can read more about <a href="http://tbe.taleo.net/NA9/ats/careers/requisition.jsp?org=FISERV_INSURANCE&cws=1&rid=63">here</a>.

We are seeking a senior level software developer proficient in ActionScript and Flex to join our team building the cutting-edge browser-based applications. Extensive experience with Rich Internet Application (RIA) development using Adobe Flex and ActionScript is required. You will be involved in designing and implementing a creative and innovative application platform with Adobe Flex which will be used to build very large projects (300+ screens). Qualified applicants will have 3+ years of in-depth ActionScript development experience developing RIA applications, and at least a year of full time, hard core Flex experience. Also required is experience with Flex Remoting (AMF) and experience with Flex frameworks such as Mate, PureMVC or Cairngorm.

Knowledge and Desire Skills

* Experience with Flex MVC frameworks: Mate, Cairngorm, etc.
* Source control system
* Agile development methodology, SCRUM preferred
* Effective, creative problem solving skills
* Strong organization skills, self-motivated, team player
* Excellent verbal and written communication skills
* MUST be proficient in ActionScript 3.0 and Adobe Flex development
* Experience with custom component development
* Extensive experience with AS3 & MXML
* Experience building large, enterprise applications with Flex
* Strong Object Oriented Programming expertise

Deep understanding of Flex internals:

* data binding
* event system
* data grids & custom renderers
* module-based application development
* internationalization & localization
* AMF Remoting
