---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  MzYwIEZsZXggLSBEYXkgMiAoVHVlc2RheSkgLSBMaXZlIEJsb2dnaW5n
typo_id: 4896
---
As you saw yesterday afternoon I didn't blog too much, so let's how today goes. The party last night was really fun, lot's of networking, rock band playing and just a nice general geek atmosphere.

<h2>Evolution of RIA Design Principals</h2>

Right now the "Evolution of RIA Design Principals" panel is about to start.

Panel is:

* Chet Haase - Senior Computer Scientists at Adobe
* Bill Scott - Director UI Engineering at Netflix
* Ehud Waizer - SAP
* Paul Guirata - Catalyst Resources

Context: oriented to customer facing applications. Not games.

<h3>Chet Haase</h3>

He works on effects at Adobe. Effects used in a subtle way can make the user more effective. 

What are the top 3 rules

# Transitioning
# Anticipatory
# well-timed.

Don't Lose the User.

<h3>Bill Scott</h3>

Principles for Interesting Moments

* Input where you output
* Require a light footprint
* Stay in the flow
* Offer invitations
* Be reactive
* Use transitions

<h3>Paul Giurata</h3>

Modular
Reusable
* Panel vs Page
* Panels being reusable application(s)
* Panels being re-used down to the code level
* Panels potentially being entirely separate applications

Bill mentions <a href="http://www.perfettimedia.com/">Christine Perfetti</a> has a <a href="http://www.uxideas.com/shows/usability_tests_nutshell/">few videos</a> on usability testing.

<h3>Compiled Favorite Principles</h3>

* Transitioning (Animations)
* Anticipatory
* Timing
* Don't Lose the User
* Interesting Moments
* Modular
* Reusable


Consistency .via. developers working from the same code. Not a style guide as it's open for interpretation.

<h2>Whats New in Flex 4 that’s NOT Spark! - Deepa Subramaniam</h2>

Deepa was on the engineering team for 7 years and now just got promoted as product manager. 

She will put the slides on her <a href="http://iamdeepa.com/blog/">blog</a>. So I will go easy with the notes.

We will talk about:

* Enhanced States
* Pixel Bender Integration
* Text (TLF)
* 2-way Data Binding
* Advanced CSS
* OSMF
* MXItemRenderer
* RSLs
* Charting Enhancements
* ASDoc
* MXML Vector
* Compile time FXG Optimization
* Improved Compiler

<h3>2-Way Databinding</h3>

Inline declaration using the syntax, @{bindable_property}

<pre>
<s:TextInput id="t1" text="@{t2.text}" />
<s:TextInput id="t2" />
</pre>

<h3>Enhanced States Syntax</h3>

* AddChild/RemovedChild replaced with includeIn/excludeFrom
* State Groups

<pre>
<m:states>
 <m:Sate name="A"/>
 <m:Sate name="B"/>
 <m:Sate name="C"/>
</m:states>

<Button label="b1" includeIn="A,B" />
<Button label="b2" includeIn="C" />
</pre>

<h3>Text</h3>

* FTE - Flash Text Engine in FP10
* TLF - Text Layout Framework, set of ActionScript classes build atop FTE. Is XML-based markup

Each text element maps to a class
<pre>
<div>		flash.textLayout.elements.DivElement
<p>			flash.textLayout.elements.ParagraphElement
<span>		flash.textLayout.elements.SpanElement
<tab>		flash.textLayout.elements.TabElement
</pre>

TLF Partitioning:

* Simple, plain text
* Rich text
* Rich editable text
* Rich, editable, selectable text

<h3>Pixel Bender Integration</h3>

* Pixel Bender: language for hardware-indepdent image processing algorithm
* Shader: compiled instance of a Pixel Bender kernel
* Flex introduces the ShaderFilter class. Simplifies   pixel bender such that they can be invoked in MXML 

<h3>Advanced CSS</h3>

* Flex 3: type and class selectors
* Flex 4: Multiple class selectors, id selectors, descendant selectors, pseudo-selectors, pseudo-state selectors

Eg pseudo-state selectors

<pre>
@namespace s "library://ns.adboe.com/flex/spark";

s|Button:up {
  color:#000000;
}

s|Button:down {
  color:#FFFFFFF;
}
</pre>

<h3>OSFM</h3>

* Generic framework for managing media in Flash applications
* Offers playback functionality, exposed in the Spark video component
* replaces FLVPlayback
* org.osmf.media.MediaPlayer
* Play, pause, stop, loop, seek, volume, autoLoop, autoPlay, ...

<h3>MXItemRenderer</h3>

* Spark ItemRenderers for use with MX List-based components
* Extends Spark ItemRenderer and handles the contractual differences

<h3>Charting Enhancements</h3>

* FilterFunctions for chart types. Can specify custom filter functions against the data set
* Inverted axis support
* RendererDirection in PieSeries
* Performance related bug fixes

<h3>RSLs</h3>

* By default RSL is turned on.
* Default linked HelloWorld is 78% smaller
* How to <a href="http://blogs.adobe.com/dloverin/2010/01/how_to_monkey_patch_when_using_flex_rsls.html">monkey patch when using RSLs</a>. If you monkey patch you loose the benefits off RSLs
* Flex is split in 6 RSLs: textlayout, osmf, framework, spark, sparkskins, rpc

<h3>MXML Vector</h3>

* New type
* Like Arrays but contents are restricted to a single base type
* Faster than array

<pre>
<fx:Vector id="myVector" type="String">
  <fx:String>hi</fx:String>
  <fx:String>bye</fx:String>
</fx:Vector>
</pre>

<h3>Compile-time FGX Optimization</h3>

* FXG directly to SWF representation
* Faster and smaller
* .fxg or past FXG into an MXML Component uses compile-time FXG Optimization

<h3>ASDoc</h3>

* Comments in MXML
* Support DITA creation
* Max, Win, Linux

<h3>Improved Compiler</h3>

* Incremental compilation. 50-80% better
* Full compilation: 30-40% better (large apps)
* Compiler Memory Usage: large apps are 30% better. multi-project apps are 70% better. Small apps are similar to Flex 3



