---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  TWFraW5nIENSVUQgbGVzcyAiQ3J1ZGR5Iiwgb25lIHN0ZXAgYXQgYSB0aW1l
  IA==
typo_id: 5037
---
One of the great "new" features of Rails (as of 2.3) is @accepts_nested_attributes_for@, allowing you to build cross-model CRUD forms without "cruddying" your controller.  There are some great examples out there about "how to":http://weblogs.manas.com.ar/spalladino/2010/03/03/handling-children-with-accepts_nested_attributes_for-in-rails/ "do":http://ryandaigle.com/articles/2009/2/1/what-s-new-in-edge-rails-nested-attributes "this":http://github.com/alloy/complex-form-examples, but I'd like to walk thorough a particular use case -- managing the "join" records in a @has_many :through@ relationship.

Consider the following database schema:

<typo:code lang="ruby">
class Villain < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :gifts
  has_many :super_powers, :through => :gifts
end

class Gift < ActiveRecord::Base
  belongs_to :villain
  belongs_to :super_power

  validates_uniqueness_of :super_power, :scope => :villain_id
end

class SuperPower < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :gifts
  has_many :villains, :through => :gifts
end
</typo:code>

In our dataset, there are a relatively small number of super powers which we wish to present as a list of checkboxes on the villain management form.  Checking/unchecking the boxes will manage the gift records for that villain, effectively managing the list of super powers available to the baddy.

To get started, we need to add @accepts_nested_attributes_for :gifts@ to the Villain class -- piece of cake.  To complete the implementation, we need to change the @params@ hash that our form generates.  Let's review the cases that we need to support and the associated @params@ hash format needed to implement the correct functionality.

The first case is a super power record that is not currently associated with the villain.  Here, the UI should display an unchecked checkbox.  If we check it and submit the form, a gift record should be created linking the villain with the super power, making this bad guy that much badder.  Here is an example of the @params@ hash we should be sending to accomplish this:

<typo:code>
  {
    'villain' => {
      'name' => 'Lex Luthor',
      ...
      'gifts_attributes' => {
        1 => { 'super_power_id' => 5 },
        2 => { 'super_power_id' => 7 },
        ...
      }
    }
  }
</typo:code>

The alternate case is a super power this villain already possesses.  In this instance, the UI should display a checked checkbox, and if we uncheck it, the existing @gift@ record should be deleted, diminishing the villain's capacity for evil.  And our @params@ hash needs to look like:

<typo:code>
  {
    'villain' => {
      'name' => 'Two-Face',
      ...
      'gifts_attributes' => {
        1 => { 'id' => 101, '_delete' => true },
        ...
      }
    }
  }
</typo:code>

Note that the keys for the @gifts_attributes@ hash are arbitrary; we can use any scheme to generate unique keys for the hash.

So how can we craft a form that sends the @params@ hash that Rails wants to see?  Here's my implementation:

<typo:code lang="ruby">
  <%- SuperPower.all.each_with_index do |super_power, index| -%>
    <label>
      <%- if gift = @villain.gifts.find_by_super_power_id(super_power.id) -%>
        <%= hidden_field_tag "villain[gifts_attributes][#{ index }][id]", gift.id %>
        <%= check_box_tag "villain[gifts_attributes][#{ index }][_delete]", false, true %>
        <%= hidden_field_tag "villain[gifts_attributes][#{ index }][_delete]", true %>
      <%- else -%>
        <%= check_box_tag "villain[gifts_attributes][#{ index }][super_power_id]", super_power.id %>
      <%- end -%>

      <%= super_power.name %>
    </label><br />
  <%- end -%>
</typo:code>

If the gift is detected, the villain has the super power, and we handle our second case from above, using the checkbox / hidden field hack Rails employs in the @check_box@ helper method to make sure a value is sent whether or not the checkbox is checked.  The else block handles the other case, setting up our @params@ hash to create the gift if the checkbox is checked.

This works, but we probably don't want to copy and paste that code everywhere we use this pattern.  How can we reuse this in a DRY fashion?  Here's a helper method that encapsulates the logic:

<typo:code lang="ruby">
  def has_join_relationship(model, join_collection_name, related_item, collection_index, options={})
    returning "" do |output|
      relationship_name = options[:relationship_name] || related_item.class.table_name.singularize + "_id"
      tag_prefix = "#{ model.class.class_name.underscore }[#{ join_collection_name }_attributes][#{ collection_index }]"

      if join_item = model.send(join_collection_name).find(:first, :conditions => { relationship_name => related_item.id })
        output << hidden_field_tag("#{ tag_prefix }[id]", related_item.id)
        output << check_box_tag("#{ tag_prefix }[_delete]", false, true)
        output << hidden_field_tag("#{ tag_prefix }[_delete]", true)
      else
        output << check_box_tag("#{ tag_prefix }[#{ relationship_name }]", related_item.id, false)
      end
    end
  end
</typo:code>

Drop that in a helper, and then your form code becomes:

<typo:code lang="ruby">
  <%- SuperPower.all.each_with_index do |super_power, index| -%>
    <label>
      <%= has_join_relationship(@villain, :gifts, super_power, index) %>
      <%= super_power.name %>
    </label><br />
  <%- end -%>
</typo:code>

Much nicer ... although I'm not sold on the name @has_join_relationship@.  Any suggestions?
