---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  Sm91cm5leSBpbnRvIEFuZHJvaWQgRGV2ZWxvcG1lbnQgLSBQYXJ0IDIgOiBy
  b290aW5nIHRoZSBnVGFibGV0
typo_id: 5063
---
<p class="p1">Before continuing development I want to update the tablet. The cyanogenmod wiki seems a good resource <a href="http://wiki.cyanogenmod.com/index.php?title=Viewsonic_G_Tablet:_Full_Update_Guide">http://wiki.cyanogenmod.com/index.php?title=Viewsonic_G_Tablet:_Full_Update_Guide</a></p><p class="p1">A colleague received a 7" Galaxy Tab today and I must admit it seems a way nicer tablet than the gTablet&hellip;but then again I can now hack around. Let's hope that updating the tablet won't brick it&hellip;Then I couldn't report much progress on the Android front as my "accountant" wouldn't let me get another one before a while.</p><p class="p1">Note the wiki mentions to put the files on the root of the device, I did that via USB transfer.</p><p class="p1">So step 1) download ClockworkMod_Gtab_v08.zip, unzip and copy the recovery folder and update.zip to the root of the internal memory.</p><p class="p1">That worked, also I tried yesterday and push the power button and the volume up button, but that didn't put me in the recovery mode. But pushing the volume up and power button works</p><p class="p1">Step 2) Flashing CyanogenMod via the Recovery. Note I should try via RomManager.</p><p class="p1"><a href="http://android.d3xt3r01.tk/cyanogen/harmony/update-cm-7.0.0-Beta1-Harmony-signed.zip">http://android.d3xt3r01.tk/cyanogen/harmony/update-cm-7.0.0-Beta1-Harmony-signed.zip<br /></a><a href="http://android.d3xt3r01.tk/cyanogen/gapps/gapps-gb-20110307-signed.zip">http://android.d3xt3r01.tk/cyanogen/gapps/gapps-gb-20110307-signed.zip</a></p><p class="p1">I moved the previous update.zip to a backup folder and just moved the above two files to root of the internal sd card. Then renamed update-cm-7.0.0-Beta1-Harmony-signed.zip to update.zip and rebooted in recovery mode. Selected "apply sdcard:update.zip" from the menu and pressed the home button and selected yes. The install is underway and takes longer than step 1. Rebooting&hellip;shoold have booted in recovery mode. Will do it next. Yea the startup logo is already different and show "cyanogen 7"&hellip;and loops&hellip;and booted. Ok, shutting down once more and restart in recovery mode to "Wipe data/factory reset" and then "Wipe cache partition".&nbsp;</p><p class="p1">Now I select "Install zip from sdcard" and select the google apps: gapps-gb-20110307-signed.zip.</p><p class="p1">Press the back button and select "reboot system now".&nbsp;</p><p class="p1">I like it, in the apps there is Terminal Emulator app. Managed to get the wifi connect&hellip;and again problems with the security certificate. Is that an android issue, or maybe there is something wrong with my network&hellip;I don't think so. So the OS look way nicer, but still cannot access the Android Market place&hellip;the app starts and shutdowns.</p><p class="p1">After a reboot the tablet is stuck in startup mode, shows "ANDROID" and that's it. USB doesn't connect, so now I have to find another way to get the next update on the tablet. Ok Wiping the data and cache as in step 2 put the tablet back in business.</p><p class="p1">All right that's it for tonight, I shall check if I can't find a better rom next.</p>

<b>UPDATE</b>: (4/10/11) Actually after playing with the Cyanogen I must say it works quite well. I have no problem accessing the drive when connecting the table via USB. The device is very responsife and I had no issue installing the <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/mas/get-appstore/android/ref=mas_em_dl?dl=1">Amazon AppStore</a>. Just download the .apk and moved it to the tablet and Angry Bird here I come.
